Guru Puja – Avignon, France
July 8, 1990
In Sahaja Yoga the Guru Puja has a very different
significant from any other Guru Puja.
When you worship your Guru, you are also worshiping
the Guru within you.
This is not in any other Guru-disciple system,
because in you, the Guru, the master has been
awakened.
And so, when you are worshiping your Guru,
then this master within you is also worshipped,
you respect it, you glorify it, you awaken
it, and you manifest it.
This, we have to realize that in Sahaja Yoga,
if you are a Sahaja Yogi.
Now, the quality of Guru first and foremost
is that he makes you meet God, means he raises
the Kundalini and establish the relation between
the All Pervading Power, and as your Guru
is Adi Shakti, you make that person meet also
the Adi Shakti.
So you have a double advantage, that at the
same time, when you give them Realization,
not only that you make them feel the union
with the Divine Power, but you can make them
meet the Divinity Itself, the source of Divine
Power.
So your responsibility as Sahaja Yogis is
very great, because in you is - there is the
Guru.
Now in our mantras we say that, “Mother,
I am my own Guru”.
But saying that, do we realize that, “If
I am my own Guru,” this “I” and “my
Guru,” between the two, “What have I achieved?
Where am I?
Can I guide myself?
Have I got the light of the Spirit on my attention
so well- established and manifested that I
can guide myself and guide others later on?”
First of all, in the Guru principle it is
important that you see to yourself the introspection:
“Can I be my own Guru?
Have I become my own Guru?”
Now, in your case your Guru is a Mother, a
woman, so it has to be among women that the
development of their Guru qualities have to
be very well manifested.
But it’s just the way it is not.
For them, they are still the mothers or they
are the wives or they are Sahaja Yoginis.
But they don’t realize that you are also
the Gurus.
Because your Mother is a Guru, because She’s
a woman and you have to be also of that quality,
that people should say, “Look at this woman,
she’s such a Guru.”
But still, as I hear from the different leaders
that the ladies are absolutely still very
much far away and are very few who can be
called as real Sahaja Yoginis.
It’s a sad thing to hear.
Because if you still keep to all these mundane
things of womanhood and the drawbacks of womanhood,
which has come out of domination maybe, because
of always they were shown to be something
lower, especially in the Christian religion,
they were never regarded as something holy.
They have this kind of a diffidence in them
that they don’t understand, that dharma
can be established more by women than by men.
And the Guru’s work is to establish the
dharma - in the society, in the family, in
relationships.
All these Gurus, which are representing all
these great symbols here, have done nothing
but have established dharma.
But first of all, before establishing the
dharma, we should watch ourselves, “Have
we got dharma within ourselves or not?”
First of all, the quality of a person who
has dharma is that he listens to others, he
obeys.
And this is something has gone wrong with
the western women, I think, that they have
forgotten how to listen to others, how to
obey others.
That’s why their children also don’t obey
them.
Obedience, if you do not have, nobody’s
going to obey you.
First, you must learn to obey.
A person like Kabira, because he was born
of a unknown cast, people didn’t know what
he was born from, and he could not go directly
to any Guru.
So you heard about Ramana, great Guru of those
days, who used to go to the river Ganges every
morning to have his bath.
So one day on his steps Kabira kept lying,
and in the darkness the Guru could not see,
and he touched him with his feet.
He said, “Who are you?”
So he said, “I’m Kabir, and I’m your
disciple.”
And he got hold of his feet.
And when he got hold of his feet, he said,
“All right, come along.”
And then he became such a great saint in India.
People know him more than they know his Guru;
he became so great.
The basic thing is humility.
Yesterday you saw how the musician was humble,
all the time he was humble, he didn’t know
how to express his humility every time.
All the time he was humble, because in humility
only you can receive the blessings, you can
receive the quality that is of your Guru.
Now, for a Guru as you have seen that in My
own way, in My own image you have to come
up.
First of all your life should be absolutely
transparent.
Transparency is the essence of Sahaja Yoga.
Everybody should know what you are doing,
where you are going, what is the way you live,
what is the way you are behaving.
I have seen people, who are Gurus, also in
the sense that we call them leaders, or we
can call them sub-Gurus, or they can not be
called as priest, but I can say communication
centers as they are.
In them you find that they are very fussy
type of people.
Always think about their body, always think
about their comfort, always grudge about what’s
- nobody looked after them, as if they suffer
from persecution-mania.
Or they will grudge about food, “I didn’t
eat my food for one day.”
Doesn’t matter.
For a Guru it’s better to starve for about
three, four days nicely, so that you get over
this idea of hunger.
You’ll be surprised since I’m here I have
not eaten anything much, just drinking something
because just the Guru has no hunger, because
it is in your stomach the Guru - vibrations
are so much that you don’t feel like eating
anything.
So, then what do you eat and how do you eat
and all these things that we have given up
to come to Sahaja Yoga.
So even if leaders have this nonsense in their
head, “What do you get to eat,” I mean,
this is the basics, absolutely, and when I
hear some people telling Me, “Oh, what did
they eat and how did they eat” and all,
it’s like I feel they are like tourists
in Sahaja Yoga.
Just come in Sahaja Yoga like tourists, you
see, to see places and go round and to know
where you get, in what restaurant you get
good food and cheaply.
All this is so basically, absolutely not a
manifestation of Guru principle.
Now you have seen your Guru as She is.
I do not know what I eat, what they give Me,
what I want.
They go on giving Me whatever they think I
like, and I just don’t know if I like that
thing or not, or what is it.
If they ask Me, “Mother, what will You have?”
I said, “What will I have, I don’t know
really, what will I have?
Anything.”
So there has to be no choices, first of all
not to waste your attention on choices.
Of course, only on vibrations.
I mean, supposing, you go to a restaurant,
find all kinds of funny vibrations there,
people are getting drunk or anything, then
of course you should say, “but all the choices
must be based on vibrations and not on material
things.”
That you get something nice there, “let’s
go there,” and they’ll travel for fifty
miles to go eat something nonsensical.
It should be all nonsense for all Sahaja Yogis.
And when I said “Sahaja Yogi” it means
also “Sahaja Yoginis”.
So the food part of it is aswadha, we should
not have any taste for any special food.
Specially in France to say that people may
not like, but French are very, very conscientious
or aware about the food part.
I don’t know how far they make really good
food, but at least they think they eat very
good food.
So, the eating of good food is a kind of a
addiction.
It’s a kind of an addiction; it’s something
like drug that you must have good food.
So Zen started this system of what they call
the tea ceremony.
In the tea ceremony what they did, I mean,
I have been through that and it’s really
quite a test of people.
With Me it was all right, but the rest of
them got really frightened.
That in the tea ceremony whatever rituals
they do they give you a tea, which is so bitter,
we can say quinine raised to power 108, it’s
like that.
And they give you very nicely, handle you
with such ritual that you have to take it.
So first they say, “You see the cup without
thinking”.
So he tried to make thoughtless awareness
through the cup.
I don’t know how much one can achieve with
that.
But that tea that you take once your tongue
is good for anything.
And to compensate it they give you something
sweet, which is again sweetness raised to
power 108, so sweet that it becomes bitter,
so sweet.
So this is just to conquer the tongue.
Zen must have thought that better give them
this tea ceremony where there is no tea, there’s
nothing but just you really give such shocks
to your tongue, so that after that you can
eat whatever you get.
And that’s why you must know that these
Japanese can eat anything.
They have solved their food problem because
they can eat anything.
They can just fish out some crabs or could
be some prawns.
Just peel them out like peanuts and eat them
like that.
I think Zen has solved this problem for them,
because they have food shortage and this is
how they can eat everything, they can eat
the bark of the tree, they can eat the snake,
they can eat the lizards, they can eat the
frogs, everything they can eat, so all their
eating problems are solved in that country
by Zen, I think, because you have no taste.
But in this I think the worst are, in the
whole world are Indians.
They are the fussiest people for food, because
their women have spoiled them.
They know very good cooking and they know
how to handle their husbands by cooking very
well.
And the way they cook food for them, you see,
the men have to go back to Indian food.
Even if they travel the whole world, they’ll
need Indian food, they can’t get over their
tongues.
It is such a big conditioning in India of
food that I just don’t know how will they
get out the absolutely the basics which are
important.
Gandhiji tried that very much in the ashram.
(Shri Mataji laughing) He used to give horrid
food, boiled food with the oil of mustard
on top and then nobody could eat that raw.
And he used to make everybody eat that.
Not only that, he would make them clean the
bathrooms, WC’s, everything so that you
get rid of your nose also, that you need everything.
Because so many people you will, while eating
also in India will put something to their
noses, you see they smell everything.
So they are oversensitive to their tongue
and to their nose, but not to their eyes,
to eyes they are not.
For eyes I would say the most sensitive people
are Japanese and Chinese and also the western
people are very much sensitive because they
don’t like to see anything dirty, filthy
or ugly.
Indians won’t mind any dirt, filth, anything,
just like dogs and what you call horses or
buffalos, they can walk through any dirt,
filth, anything.
Nothing matters to them, anything ugly -ugly
building or an ugly dress or anything is all
right for them.
It doesn’t matter, to their eyes it doesn’t
matter at all.
Only thing kitchen should be clean and they
are all the time in the kitchen.
So we don’t have to learn all these bad
things from Indians, there are some good things
they have, but there are certain things – these
are very bad conditionings.
And the next to that are, I think, the French.
But if you eat English food you can become
quite good because there’s no taste in English
food.
So I have no problem anywhere because I think
I have no taste at all and I can eat anything
any way it is cooked, it’s all right, I
don’t bother about what is cooked, what
is not cooked.
But if you have some French people for a dinner
in a restaurant they’ll spend 45 minutes
deciding what they are going to eat.
And, what a waste of energy!
Forty-five minutes just to decide what they
are going to eat.
After all what is so great, what you are going
to eat?
It’s all there, just one thing that everybody
should have.
So for Sahaja Yogis it’s important to give
up this idea, “I will have this.”
First of all nobody should ask, “What will
you have?” - to Me also.
I do not like people asking Me questions,
“What will You have?”, because I’ve
to think about it and I want to be in Nirvichara.
So, this is a one big ordeal, which we do
not understand, how much we are attached to
food and food goes in the stomach.
And not only that it spoils our Guru system,
but also spoils our physical system.
So we should try not to look at food.
That’s why fasting was told to the all the
people who wanted to develop their Gurupada,
so that they should not fast.
But they do not fast normally because they
think of food, so there’s no fasting.
I mean, fasting means that you go into nirvichara
and don’t think of food, but they are all
the time thinking of food, so it has no meaning
and you are just the same whether you eat
it or not, your mind is eating it all the
time.
Then you start thinking, “When will I end
my fast and know where will I go to have what?”
So this is a very basic thing that we should
get rid of our habits, of our conditionings,
“What we are going to have and what food
we are going to have.”
Our children also should be given a proper
training about it that it’s all right, sometimes
there is no salt, sometimes there’s no sugar,
doesn’t matter.
And sometimes there’s nothing, doesn’t
matter, nothing important for a Sahaja Yogi,
you can live without food for days together,
no problem.
So for a Sahaja Yogi there’s nothing like
taste of food and hunger.
There’s only one hunger is to be purified,
to be clean.
This is one of the things that dirties our
mind, we should say, that we think about food
all the time.
Even in Russia I found people carried all
Indian things there, they were cooking all
Indian things, and I am poor thing I can’t
eat anything.
So they cooked, brought everything for Me,
thinking I’m an Indian, but they don’t
know I am Zen, I cannot, I do not have sense
of taste.
So one to get over taste one has to work out.
It’s an experiment you have to do with ourselves.
Unless and until we introspect ourselves and
do experiments we cannot rise.
Because though the Kundalini is trying Her
level best, but your conditionings are so
great that it cannot pierce through and cannot
melt you onto that Guru level.
If you see the lives of all these Gurus, they
were married, they had children, they lived
a normal life.
But in their own personal life they were absolutely
detached people.
So first detachment should come from food.
And there whatever you like you just don’t
eat.
That’s the best way, because already because
of liking something.
Supposing if somebody’s fond of ice-cream.
He must have already spoiled his liver, so
they give up.
If you like pasta, give up pasta.
If you like something else, just give up,
don’t ask for it and don’t eat it at all
so that you see your mind will get little
bit detached from it.
It’s very easy to achieve this detachment,
I think, if you work it out in a sensible
way.
Just try to punish your body.
You see, if you are your Guru, you better
take hold of first of all your body and your
conditionings.
You have to treat your body with this thing.
I am told many girls who have married abroad
are still making their Indian food and eating
this, horrible it is.
They should starve.
If they starve for say about five-six days
or maybe eight days, then they’ll eat any
food in any case.
That’s why the fasting is given.
So one should adjust oneself to any kind of
food you can have.
And if you want to survive then you eat anything,
so just make it a point that you get rid of
this very simple conditioning you have - of
liking the food that you want to eat and you
don’t want to have.
I think as Sahaja Yogini or Sahaja Yogi who
cannot get rid of this little thing, then
how can you call him a Sahaja Yogi, I don’t
know, he’s very a-Sahaj.
Because the other day I met one lady.
I said, “What is the matter, where have
you been?”
She said, “I’ve been looking out for some
sort of an Indian ingredient.”
I said, “How can you get it here in Spain?
You cannot.
Why?”
“Because they asked me to make Indian food.”
All right.
Without that can’t you make Indian food?
What is the need to run all the way whole
day for a one small little thing called hinh.
There’s a big name for that, it’s a small
little thing.
Just to get that she had to run all over the
places to get it.
So for people who are Sahaja Yogis if they
are Sahaj whatever is available you can make
something nice out of it and eat it.
So that shows what shows sagacity, shows strupti,
shows your satisfaction.
And that is one of the manifestations of a
Guru that he’s a satisfied soul.
He’s just self-contained, doesn’t bother.
Now, for example, some people, specially in
the West, thank God, they are not spoiled
by their wives so much, they don’t have
so much of conditioning, they can eat anything.
I’ve seen that when they come on the India
tour, all the Indians say, “O, horrid food
was given and the poor things were eating
that horrid food and this and that.”
And I asked them, “Which place you like
the best?”
They said, “Brahmapuri.”
I said, “Eh?
They were saying Brahmapuri had the worst
food and everybody is complaining.”
“No, no.
Brahmapuri was the best, because we could
bathe in the river and we could sing and we
could enjoy it.”
You see, that’s the sign of one thing to
get rid of your bad habits of food business.
Now the second part is for the body you need
comforts.
I must congratulate the Western Sahaja Yogis
that they may be coming from any walk of life,
I must say, the Indians have to learn from
them.
They may be coming from any position or status.
All of them enjoy the comfort of the Spirit
when they travel in the Tour.
They do not ask for, “ Why I haven’t got
a chair, I haven’t got a bed, I haven’t
got a proper things.”
In this way you see you will realize that
the body comfort is of no importance.
It’s we have just spoilt our body, there’s
no need, no need.
Body you put it anywhere will sleep in any
case.
If you cannot sleep for two nights, all right,
put on some music for one night or two nights
as we had here, you will sleep anyway.
So this is the second point is that we have
to give up body comfort.
But the third point where I think the Western
people falter is their materialistic attitude.
Materialistic attitude and their fondness
of their eyes.
So one of them is the worst of all, I mean,
the worst in worst of all is that you can
never have, that’s such a big blot if you
have that is to have a roving eye and things
like that.
Out of question, that’s out of question
for women or for men.
They are not Sahaja Yogis by any chance.
They have to have very clean eyes.
That part is all right.
And the second part is the greed, lust and
greed.
Of course, with Sahaja Yoga maybe the lust
part is over, but greed is still there with
so many who get lost.
So I would say Indians do not have this lust
problem, but they still have greed, greed
problem.
Means they want to buy something like a radio,
some electrical stuff they must buy.
If they come abroad they must buy something.
It’s all right, if you get it, well and
good, if you don’t get it, well and good
- it should be.
But for a Westerner, you see, he would not
like to give up his furniture, which his great
grandmother had.
Though he can’t sit on it because it’s
so old.
If he sits on it will be break.
But he must keep it to show off that, “I
had a great grandmother who gave this unique
chair.”
According to Indian standards it’s junk,
absolute junk.
Because it is good for nothing you put it
in the drawing room, nobody can sit on it
and it looks junky.
But according to the western mind the older
it is, the better - whether it is a junk or
it is a jewel, he’ll have so many junks
in the house and they will sell like hot cakes.
Because there’s a very subtle materialistic
attitude towards matter that, “This will
sell like hot cakes if I sell it because there
must be another mad westerner who’d like
to buy that junk.”
You see.
So that this junk that you have in the house
is better to get rid of because God knows
how many people must have used it, it’s
like a grave in the house.
It’s a grave.
So to have then also the antique jewelry.
Antique jewelry is another mind.
Antique is a - what you can say - is the fad
or addiction of the western people.
Antique.
For us nothing is antique.
Because we still produce antique things, beautiful
things so Indians don’t understand the value
of antiques.
They don’t understand how these people are
so mad after torn things and broken things
and dirty things and filthy things.
But the western mind has been brought up that
way.
And these antique things I have seen that
once I went to somebody’s house, you see,
and he asked Me with very great honor to sit
on his chair.
As soon as I sat on the chair I thought there
were snakes and were scorpions all biting
Me.
I got a fright, I got up.
I said, “What is it?”
He said, “This is from great, great, great
grandmother, you see, she gave us this thing.”
I said, “It will break, I better sit outside.”
So this also madness of this antique is so
much that it is unbelievable how people go
into it.
So there’s a joke in India; there’s a
very great writer called as Princhan, he wrote
about two Englishmen going on the road of
Benares when they were hit by a lota, that
they use for their bathrooms - fell on their
feet.
And it fell on their feet and he jokingly
says on the feet where all the bureaucrats
fall.
Means, all Indian bureaucrats used to fall
at the feet of the English at that time, so
he made a joke.
But doesn’t matter, then the English, you
see, looked at that thing and they were very
angry.
Immediately they took to law, “You have
to come to the courts, you have to come to
the police and we’ll going to report this
has fallen there, it has hit us” and all
that.
So there was a clever man, he knew the English
or the western mind, he said, “Sir, do you
know this, this lota has very valuable.”
They said, “Why?”
“Because this one was used by Akbar the
Great.
So ancient it is.”
They said, “Really?”
“Yes it is and, you know, you just don’t
quarrel with them and ask them for this lota.”
And he told in Indian language to them that,
“I’ve befooled this people, I’ve told
them that this lota belonged to Akbar and
you have to take this lota and use this lota
to just to befool them.”
So then they asked, “But all right, we’ll
forgive you, we’ll not take you to any courts
or anything, but you just give us this lota.”
They said, “No, we can’t.”
They said, “Why?”
“Because it’s such an antique piece, you
see.”
In India you won’t find anybody respecting
antique pieces, especially in Benares nobody
bothers.
(Laughter) So they said, “Really?”
“Yes, it belonged to Akbar and, you know,
my father was - my forefathers worked with
him, so he gave us this lota, we can’t give
you, we are sorry, you see.”
“No, no, no, no, please give us, you see,
and we’ll no take you to the police.”
“All right, you charge us, whatever money
you charge us” and all that.
In those days they paid one thousand rupees,
this is equal to now one carore, I think.
They gave these English paid them and bought
that lota, which had nothing to do with Akbar
or anyone.
So this madness of antique has to go away
from our minds, it’s such a built-in thing
within us, that we always talk of antiquities.
Perhaps maybe because of wars everything was
destroyed and whatever was in the olden times
was something very beautiful and good and
now we are not making very good things, perhaps,
maybe that is the reason.
But now we are making nice things, we can
make.
Now in England I was surprised the old crafts
are coming up, everywhere I go the old crafts
are coming up.
So to respect antiques means you just stop
making the old craft revive.
Because you pay so much to the antiques, the
same thing made today won’t fetch the same
price as it was.
Now this has ruined our creativity, ruined
our hand work and it has ruined our whole
- I think the quality of our life, because
the way we are mad after antiques.
So this also should go from your head that
anything antique is something good.
It’s a - it’s a very superficial value
if you see to it.
Because people I have seen think that antique
is something expensive.
It’s just a marketing style that people
have felt that this is expensive, that is
expensive, so it’s something great, to wear
something stupid and to say that this is antique
jewelry and go about.
I mean, God knows how many people must have
used it and must have worn it and what must
be the feelings of that person.
So we have to understand that this conditioning
that we have in our heads, that we must have
something antiques with us, keep something
of such value.
I mean, these questions never arose before,
so it’s not written in any books.
Anyone of the books of the Gurus is not written
that, “Don’t care for antiques.”
They have written, “Don’t drink, don’t
smoke”, all other things which spoils your
Nabhi.
They’ve written all these things.
But they have not written that, “Don’t
worry about antiques so much.”
You see, and I find that’s a craze nowadays
and so we have to tell people that we have
to be careful.
Moreover I feel the way people have gone to
drugs and that, maybe that because they used
so much antiques that the bhoots from the
antiques must have caught.
Can’t understand that why people are so
melancholy, all the time crying, weeping,
and all that.
So the conditionings of these matter as we
think it to be is to be absolutely taken out.
Of course, I mean in certain countries we
should say that the antique things were made
were good and nice.
But only because something is antique should
not be respected because of its intrinsic
value of aesthetics that – it’s all right,
but one has to see first of all the vibrations
of everything.
If the vibrations are good then you should
accept, otherwise not, because we have the
language of vibrations and we have to use
the language of vibrations.
Once you start using the language of vibrations
you’ll be surprised how you will get complete
picture as to what is to be done.
So to get rid of these three conditionings
too, for our body it’s very important, and
the worst thing for a Sahaja Yogi to think
that he’s sick.
Is a sort of a tarnishing the name of Sahaja
Yoga.
If you are still feel you are sick you better
get out of Sahaja Yoga.
Because either you get well or you are not
a Sahaja Yogi, one of the two things.
If you are a Sahaja Yogi you have to see that
you get well and if there are certain problems
also, doesn’t matter.
Now for example, supposing, I have certain
problems which I know because of Sahaja Yoga,
because of My position as the Mother, maybe
position as Adi Shakti.
Certain physical things I have to face, parasympathetic
working I have to face.
But I go through it, is accepted.
You have to accept your body as it is and
you are not to sort of say that, “I’m
not well” or “There’s something wrong
with me” and go on complaining like some
old hag.
Never think you are old, first of all.
Never think that you have gone old or you
are no good.
Look at your Mother.
I never think that way.
Yesterday half of you were sleeping.
I was just still alert and listening to the
music and today I’m again alert here.
So if you have a Guru then that image should
be with you that we, “Look at our Mother.
She’s so old, how much She travels, how
much She does”.
All right, you might say, “She’s the Adi
Shakti”, but little bit of shakti you too
have.
And that shakti is to be shown by your full
dynamism.
If you have no dynamism and if you still feel
very weak that means you are not a Sahaja
Yogi.
So just ask for, ask for any amount of energy,
can come to you.
That dynamism, it should be there.
Now this I would say for the physical self
that one has to know that you are all younger
and getting younger and younger, but not the
stupidity of youth, but gravity, the gravity
of the age.
Actually I‘ve seen children who are born
realized, they are very grave, they won’t
do anything that is not dignified.
And they will never, I’ve never heard them
talking to some of - the Sahaja Yoginis have
a bad habit of talking tac, tac, tac, tac,
tac, tac among themselves, it’s a very bad
habit.
Which shows that they still very much lacking.
Just wearing saris or wearing bindis you do
not become a Sahaja Yogini.
First of all, what is the gravity?
You should only speak whenever it is necessary.
So I’ve seen these Sahaja Yogis who are
born realized children they stand like this
before Me and they say very few words, but
beautiful words they speak.
And say things, which you can remember all
the time - that you just do not go on wasting
anything.
And they’re extremely obedient, so from
them one can learn that these are born realized
and the way their Guru principle is acting
- are we also acting the same way?
Or we are doing something that is not good
for our ascent.
So even after coming to Sahaja Yoga if you
do not try hard to introspect yourself, you
have missed the point that you compare yourself
with your Guru - all the time.
Then everything has to be understood in the
right perspective that we are Sahaja Yogis.
Now for a Sahaja Yogi first and foremost thing
that he has to have love.
First, for others, not for himself.
If you are all the time worried about yourself,
“My body is such, my this thing such and
I have to do this and that” then you don’t
love others.
But do you seek to the comfort of others?
Do you feel the compassion of other Sahaja
Yogis?
Do you feel, “What have I to bring for them?
What is missing in them?”
Do you work it out, do you go out of the way
to help them?
First of all Sahaja Yogis.
Now Sahaja Yogis are different things.
I’ve seen many Sahaja Yogis will go and
take the side of the non-Sahaja Yogis and
try to debase the Sahaja Yogis.
Is a very wrong thing.
You belong to this new race and the people
who do not belong to this new race and if
they are attacking anybody, these are your
hands, your feet, your head.
And if they attack it, it is duty bound that
you help them instead of helping others.
Maybe something wrong with this person, doesn’t
matter.
You need not show all the fair play there.
In that place you should support a Sahaja
Yogi out and out.
Later on you may correct and you may tell
that person, “You should not have done like
this, it was wrong”.
So this dignity and this understanding comes
only through silence.
But if you are chirping all the time, talking
tac, tac, tac, tac, tac, tac, tac, tac, it
can never, never can make you deeper person.
You’ll be just flying in the air with all
that.
So for women now is best is to take to mauna,
is to keep quiet, just keep quiet.
They all the time want to talk.
This I’ve heard from all the leaders that
is a big problem with women.
They just go on talking stories, telling stories.
But if you ask them to come and speak, they’ll
start shaking.
How many can give speeches - women?
If you understand that if you cannot give
a speech, you better not talk also.
You should be able to give a speech, because
your Mother is a woman, She gives speeches.
Why can’t you give some speech?
You cannot.
If I make you stand, you will be shaking,
I know that.
But if it comes to murmuring souls, you are
there.
So that is one thing – women have to be
very careful.
And as today is the Guru Puja I have to tell
you things not as a Mother, but as your Guru.
That if you have to ascend the best thing
is for you to stop talking.
Maunam sarvatha sadhanam.
Maun means to keep quiet, is the - it gives
you all kinds of facilities, just keep quiet.
If somebody’s talking too much, just keep
quiet.
If somebody’s trying to criticize, keep
That’s your silence, that’s your right,
that’s your domain that you can keep silent.
Just watch that person.
If it comes then to answer, then you can answer.
But if somebody’s trying to attack you just
keep silent.
But this silence has to be established and
one should only establish by not talking too
much.
I’ve seen also when I am sitting here, I’ve
seen women talking among themselves and this
is very wrong.
You must learn the silence.
Like yesterday I saw so many ladies also were
walking out, walking in.
In the church will you do that?
You won’t do it.
In the church there is no Christ, there’s
a horrible priest sitting there, but you - you
cannot do it.
You all keep quiet, you sit there nicely.
I’ve never seen anybody walking out here
and there and doing all kinds of things, putting
the children in front like that, making them
sleep.
Never.
Can you do that in the church?
What a discipline people observe in that church,
which is an artificial place.
And where you are now, that kind of a silence
has to be there and that kind of understanding,
that depth, that awe has to be there.
But because we have not yet developed that
Guru, if we have developed it then immediately
it will work out, you’ll see your gravity
will show in your behavior.
So this is for - our attention not to be wasted.
To discuss somebody, to discuss about others’
characters we have no business.
Do we discuss the character of one hand to
another hand?
To discuss about what has happened about marriages,
things like that.
Also marriage is just - in Sahaja Yoga it’s
not such an important thing.
Some people pay too much attention to marriage,
you see.
A marriage becomes a headache.
Also then, “What about my marriage?”
Then again ten minutes you see that person,
“What about my marriage?”
Again after ten minutes, “What about my
marriage?”
You want to run away.
I mean, you see, it’s something becomes
like a mania for people, “What should we
do?”
And the whole thing is all depends, and the
whole programming depends on how you are going
to get married.
So you have come to Sahaja Yoga, you are Sanyasis.
You are not married people in a way, you are
married only to Sahaja Yoga, that’s your
husband, that’s your wife.
And the so-called husband and wife are there.
But if they are not Sahaja Yogis then you
are unmarried, definitely.
So too much attention is paid in Sahaja Yoga
to marriages.
I’ve seen that before, before marriage - before
Sahaja Yoga, marriage was a joke.
Every third day there was a divorce and people
would run away and do all kinds of things.
Then when they got married after Sahaja Yoga
they are the greatest romantic people ever
known in the whole world.
I mean, all Romeo and Juliets going about,
I just don’t understand.
Even in the Indian villages people complain
that, “What sort of these people are?
I mean, they have no sense at all and the
way they go round, are they the saints?”
So that saintliness, that sanyasta, that asceticism
has to be expressed in our married life.
I don’t mean that you don’t have relationship
with your husband but in a very private way.
It’s has to be extremely private and it
should not be such a great thing to go into
romanticism.
You’ll ruin the whole of Sahaja Yoga in
the West if you start doing that nonsense.
Because also there’s an idea about it that,
you see, you fall in love.
But then you’ll fall, that’s the first
point is.
You’ll fall, you won’t to rise.
So this attachment and this worry about the
husband and this and that, I mean, you can
carry on with any kind of a husband and wife
if you are a Sahaja Yogi, should be able to.
I mean, I know that’s very simple.
It’s, your husband is a study, wife is a
study, that’s all.
You study a person, what sort of a person
is.
But for that you have to have the witness
state and you have to see, you have to be
detached.
So in marriages one has to be detached.
But on the contrary I find that just after
the marriage they want to organize some special
thing for them to go to some sort of a honeymoon
or some sort of a thing.
I don’t know how these ideas crawl up.
These are coming from the old conditionings
of things and after honeymoon they come and
say, “Mother, this marriage is not going
to work out.”
So it’s better to do slow and steady and
then decide.
Because you just jump into honeymoon mood
and come back and say, “Mother, this I have,
I have started thinking and I don’t think.”
I know of a lady who was jumping with a Indian
gentleman and she was on her way to Australia
in Singapore, she telephones that, “Mother,
I don’t think this marriage will work out.”
And here everybody complain to Me, “Mother,
these two are behaving in such a manner that
Indians are rather embarrassed.”
So the sense of shame you must learn from
Indians.
They never, husband and wife, never sit together
in India, is regarded as bad manners and it
should be with you also.
That even in the Puja, even in anything they
are sitting in the public, what is the need
to show your relationship in the public?
It’s only in the private.
This is one of the things one if you start
understanding, there will be a proper adjustment.
Men should be with men in the public, women
should be with the women together.
But the women or men, whatever they are, whatever
are their bad, bad points should not be brought
back.
Like, I would say the men have jealousies
and they have power orientation and they discuss
about leadership and they every, they get
a shock if you tell them that you are not
going to be a leader, as if they think leadership
is something very concrete.
It’s the greatest myth ever going, is this
leadership.
There’s nothing like leaders in this Sahaja
Yoga, it’s just a joke.
And your Mother is very good at playing serious
jokes.
So be careful - don’t be childish about
it, you have to understand that this is a
big joke going on and it’s just a testing
point and if I test you wrong, you can tell
Me, but I think this has worked well, because
I can test people very well on that level
and immediately I know when the person gets
onto the horse of ego.
So, for your mental attitude has to be different
and our priorities have to change.
Our priorities have to change.
What are our priorities?
First and foremost thing is our ascent, is
the first priority.
For our ascent whatever is needed has to be
done.
If you have to punish your whole body, all
right.
If you have to punish yourself, all right.
If you have a conditioning, get rid of it.
Just introspect yourself, that is Self Realization,
is to know yourself.
When you know yourself and know what is clinging
onto it, just to remove it completely, work
it out the way you like, work it out the way
you like.
You see, it is very important that the body,
mind, everything should be your slaves.
Nothing should dominate you; you should be
on top of everything.
How dare your body ask for anything?
How dare your mind tell you anything?
How this conditioning works on you?
“I am a Sahaja Yogi, I’m above everything.”
Like the lotuses come out of the ponds, you
have come out of it.
We have so many proofs to show that you are
realized souls.
I’ll show you some photographs that I have
to show that there is light.
I can put light into you, they are all enlightened.
But in My presence if you become the light,
you must carry the light also.
Not only in My presence, but when you go out.
But one of the reasons, I think, when I tell
something people just start thinking about
whom Mother is talking, they never think,
“She’s talking about me”.
That’s the only way you can penetrate within
yourself and you see that, “Mother is talking
about me, She’s correcting me all over and
She’s telling me.”
Then only it will penetrate and it will work
out.
The priorities have to be changed and the
first and foremost is your ascent, and the
Spirit, and Sahaja Yoga.
The rest is negligible, nothing important.
Then the faith that there is this All Pervading
Power, which is looking after us, is very
important.
This time the musicians came all the way,
I must tell you the story of their travel.
They came and they said that there’s a train
from Kiev and they also bought the tickets
so got into the train and they were off-loaded
before the Hungarian border.
They didn’t know what to do, they had no
visas, nothing and not so much money also.
They thought, “We are on the train.”
Said, “No, you have to go cross over and
go to Budapest”, and they didn’t know
where, they were standing on the road.
And, but they were all laughing and enjoying”,
must be something in store for us.”
Nobody felt that they were in trouble or in
anything, so surrendered.
“So suddenly, – they said, – the custom
people came and surrounded them and they said,
“What’s the matter, how are you here with
all these bags and baggages?”
So they said, “Why are you here?”
They said, “We have come for a concert and
this, and musicians we are and all.”
And some or other they started melting away.
And then they gave them Realization.
Six of them got Realization.
Now can you believe the power of love.
And the custom officers they offered their
own cars, took them down to the other side.
It’s never happened with custom officers
- imagine.
It would be like shaving their teeth off,
I tell you, the way (Shri Mataji laughing)
if you can do that to the custom officer,
but it happened.
And they came to the other side and left them
there.
Now they didn’t know what to do, they wanted
to go to Budapest, they had to walk about
two miles or something to the station.
So they waiting there well, they said that,
“Mother, You sent maybe two Yugoslavs came
in a big bus of 49 people - all vacant.
They stopped the bus and said, “What is
it, why are you here?”
So they said, “This is our problem and we
have to go”.
So they got into the bus.
When he was driving them down, they thought
of talking to him that, “Why not you take
us to Milan?”
And they managed.
And they were in Milan.
It’s so remarkable.
So to have faith completely in yourself and
in that Power, which is surrounding you.
And once you have that faith you will realize
that though it is so helpful to you, it is
so kind to you, on the same level if you think
it, it can be very harmful.
So then never listen to the Guru ninda, means
anybody talks anything ill about your Guru,
just put your hands to your ears, absolutely
immediately.
I’ve known of a person who was - did that
caught cancer, and another now in jail, another
one there.
So anybody is saying like that just put your
hands, because now you know that – what
is your Guru.
So you should never hear anything against
your Guru from anyone.
The other day one gentleman asked Me a question,
a newsman.
He said that, “I am told You have made a
castle for Yourself.”
I said, “I have paid for it, I’ve made
it also, it was a horrid place, no doubt.
But there are only Sahaja Yogis staying there,
I’m not staying there.”
That’s the best part.
But that’s all I said.
But on the contrary, they never go and ask
these questions to any gurus on anything.
Because the disciples say, “Yes, so what?
We want to give to our guru money and this
and that”.
They never ask.
But through Sahaja Yoga or Myself I have cured
so many people of incurable diseases, I could
have minted money.
For curing one cancer patient I could have
made a castle, Myself.
So when people say like that you should say,
“Do you know how many people She has cured?
How much money She could have taken from them
if She was a doctor or She was a false Guru?
How much money She would have made out of
all of them?”
Then they will understand, you see, because
they have been materialistic they talk like
that.
And their attitude is very different and so
to tell them off is the best way because I’ve
seen that these press people are absolutely
harassed by the disciples of the false Gurus.
Just they cannot criticize; they cannot say
a word against such false Gurus.
While I find that Sahaja Yogis still lack
that complete faith in themselves and complete
assertion.
Where you have to assert, you must assert.
For example, anybody says something wrong
against Me, you have to assert, must say,
“No, not possible, it’s not!”
But I’ve seen some people asking Me funny
questions for a Sahaja Yogis also.
So the first part is that to see how much
we are sensitive to spirituality.
I’ve seen Sahaja Yogis supporting somebody
who is so negative, you can’t even bear
that person and - such a person is something
great, while somebody who is so good they
cannot make it out.
So what’s the use, your computer is so faulty,
you’ll do, I mean, the planes will have
to run up and down if you have such a computer
as Sahaja Yogis are, because they just judge
the other way round.
A person who is good in Sahaja Yoga, who has
got vibrations, he may be simple, he may be
unassuming, he may not be so rich, he may
not be so educated, may not be from some good
university, is he anything, but you must see
the vibrations of that person, what sort of
vibrations that person has and then you should
judge.
Instead of that if you judge that person only
because he’s very good to talk and he talks
well and very scholarly or something like
that, that’s not the point.
The point is what are his vibrations?
And once you see those vibrations and judge
them on vibrations, then you are a Sahaja
Yogi, otherwise I would not call you at all
a Sahaja Yogi, but for a Guru it is very important.
I have seen sometimes even the leaders supporting
somebody who is absolutely horrid; I can’t
bear that person, even for five minute.
But here the Guru sends him over to Me, “Oh,
Mother, he’s so good, you know, he donated
so much money”.
It doesn’t matter.
You donated money, so what?
Who asked him to donate money?
But he should not donate his bhoots to us
now anymore, we don’t want his bhoot.
So that’s what it is.
So the judgment should be correct about a
person when you say that, “This man is not
good or that is not good.”
But mostly Gurus themselves are caught up
and then they have ambitions and if somebody
doesn’t listen to them or somebody wants
to give a lecture at a wrong time and somebody
says, “You shouldn’t talk like this”
or something, then they get angry.
They are very hot tempered and they provoke
people, they say things sometimes and when
people react, they say, “You are a bad Sahaja
Yogi.”
That’s not the way.
First of all a Guru or a leader has to be
himself a very mild, gentle, and a good person.
He has to be in such a way he should not demand
anything, should not ask for anything, never
demand anything.
Anybody who demands can not be a Guru.
Respect is to be commanded and not to be demanded.
And so everything works out well if you understand
that once you rise in your ascent, in your
wisdom, in your awareness and in your Spirit,
automatically all these things happen, you
don’t have to ask for anything, you don’t
have to plead for anything, you don’t have
to complain for anything, everything works
out.
You are looked after by all the ganas, by
all the angels, they are there, you are on
the stage.
But if you are half faith then they play tricks
with you.
You see, they play tricks, they make you falter,
you have problems, you go here, you go there,
all these things happen and then you say,
“Mother, how is it this happened?”
Because they are also jokers, so they play
jokes with you and they make problems for
you just to make you understand that you are
doing wrong.
So we are on a stage where there’s a beautiful
security, everything is there and we have
to give to the world such a great thing like
Sahaja Yoga, which is for the emancipation
of the whole world, as you realize, and so
also I hope you realize your responsibilities.
There are so many things one has to understand,
how one has to be as a Guru, how he has to
act and how he has to work out.
Now I’ve given so many lectures on Guru
thing, but for today’s lecture only I have
to say that first thing to have a Guru system
you must have complete humility.
Now, with Me, I would say, I am too simple
and I am Mahamaya, so you be very careful.
You cannot take liberties with Me, you cannot
take.
If you try to take too much liberties that
means you are not a disciple.
A disciple has to keep a distance from the
Guru.
You cannot just take liberties, walk into
My room every time, sit there for hours together,
chit-chat with Me, nothing.
You have no right.
Only when I call you, when I ask for you,
you should come.
Then you should not force things on the Guru
that, “Please, come and listen to this or
do this”, that should not be said.
For example, yesterday nobody told Me there
are going to be these music programs or anything
arranged.
So we have to report everything to your leader
or to Me.
All those things that you want to do and it
should be really transparent.
Like this hand (Shri Mataji shows Her right
hand) knows everything that this hand (Shri
Mataji shows Her left hand) is doing.
And this hand (Shri Mataji shows Her left
hand) knows everything that this hand (Shri
Mataji shows Her right hand) is doing.
In the same way everybody should know each
other.
Then the Gurus should not have jealousies
for each other.
It’s I’m just telling you because also
I found out that there are certain jealousies.
And when they talk there is a little bit of,
“Ah, he’s good, but this, this, this.”
When they enjoy each other’s company because
they have reached a certain state and they
understand, “This is the state we are in.”
When they each other’s company fully and
appreciate each other much more than anybody
else - the Guru’s company.
All the company of the leaders, if they enjoy
each other.
And there’s no jealousy, there’s no fight,
there’s no problem but just the enjoyment
of the company, then they should know that
they have become Guru.
Now all of them never fought with each other,
they supported.
Actually it is one Principle was born again
and again.
But only the satanic people they’ll fight
among themselves, not the godly.
And also they will talk against the person
who is a realized soul or who is an Incarnation,
but never against themselves.
It’s very surprising that the satanic people
though they fight among themselves, there
are jealousies; they’ll never talk of each
other.
But here I find that in Sahaja Yoga we have
freedom.
But freedom is not abandonment, is the freedom
with complete rules and regulations of the
Divine with us and we have to know them that
this is the Divine Law.
So all of us are now sitting like in a big
vimana like an aeroplane and we all have to
land into the beautiful area, but first of
all we have to develop that humility in your
heart - complete humility and surrender, that’s
very important.
Unless and until you have that humility and
surrender in your heart, Guru principle can
not be awakened.
First you have to be the disciple and then
the Guru.
So you have to develop that humility.
And that humility comes very easily if you
love Me, respect Me.
It’s not only love, but respect.
That respect has to be there and then people
will respect you.
May God bless you!
* * *
***NO FINAL VERIFICATION FROM THIS POINT ON***
Shri Mataji speaks about music performance
during a concert:
This is a very, you see, pure raga and the
purity of it to be maintained is very difficult
as he has shown here little bit here and there
to slip out in
the playing of notes.
It forms another raga, you see, it’s very
delicate raga – like somebody says the path
of
God is like a very, very slim road.
One side is a big, a huge mountain, another
side is a big valley.
In the same way this raga is a - raga which
can only be taught by a very good Guru.
And only can be learned very well by a very
good disciple, also.
Because it is so delicate that slipping this
side or that side you just get into another
raga as he has shown you just now.
So the purity of it and this is the real beauty
of this raga is.
I had heard this raga once upon a time by
a very great singer, called Roshnara Begum
and the one he was singing – just I asked
My sister, “What is the bondage?”, because
I remember the song, but didn’t remember
the exact words, you see.
Just now she told Me.
And she is another great, great singer, Roshnara
Begum, and the way she was singing, you know,
as if the whole Puria - the whole building
of Puria she made it manifest – really.
She made it manifest – the whole Puria raga.
Say, such a beautiful thing and that is what
it is that here is a sign of a person who
has done it so much with that purity of raga,
is the point - the purity of raga.
And it’s very good for Sahaja Yogis to know
that the purity of understanding of that
if you go a little bit this side, a little
bit this side you get away from Sushumna.
* * *
After puja explanation
(Sahaja Yogis show
the miracle photographs and Shri Mataji explains)
When the changes taking place, actually it’s
My name in Arabic, the changes taking place
now.
This is another one.
This is My name, this one is My name in Arabic
language in the other, in other direction.
Then it becomes, then it becomes Omkara in
other direction and Omkara becomes like a
heart and with so many lines, there were no
lines, nothing.
The lights become Omkara.
Now, this is before the Puja they started
with the photograph.
This is another series.
So the music started and
the photograph started changing.
Started going into different shapes.
This one is easy languishes.
The lights going into shapes.
This
is before that.
Now they are writing My name, these lights
are writing My name, started writing.
Now this
is another one.
How
the form’s changing.
Now
see how the forms have changing.
Here the vibrations are dancing.
Vibrations are dancing, just see there.
Then the Sahasrara.
Then I disappear into light.
One, two, three and then they all become lights
which show
one by one.
... These
are
the vibrations.